# IS510 Final Projects
__Fall 2017__

## Overview
Students work in 3-person teams to define and complete a moderately-sized data analytics project in SQL and Python. Detailed instructions are provided regarding selecting and framing a suitable project. Grading criteria will reflect demonstrated achievement of the objectives and compliance with the requirements.

## Objectives
* Apply SQL and Python skills to a student-selected analytical project of moderate (but nontrivial) scope and complexity.
* Demonstrate mastery of SQL, Python, Pandas, Jupyter, and GitHub. (If you do have not taken IS505 then make arrangements with the instructor.)
* Work in teams, with professional-quality tools and standards.

## Project Requirements
* **All work must be your own.** It is your responsibility to demonstrate the unique contributions made by your work.
* **Academic honesty policies and scholarship norms apply.** All relevant previous work and data sources must be properly cited.
* **The work must be fully reproducible, even and especially with new data.** This is to be professional work, subject to prevalent standards. Suggestion: use unit tests to verify that the data is loading correctly and that the statistical measures are doing what you expect.
* **Descriptive analytics (as in QA400) are sufficient.** However, there is no need to constrain your work. If you can apply forecasting or decision modeling, then feel free to do so.
* **The analysis should stand on its own.** All work will be posted to GitHub Classroom. You will be asked to present your work on the final day of class, but the analysis itself should be readily accessible and understandable from your GitHub repositories without installing any additional software.
* **The project must use and integrate data from __two__ sources: a SQL database of your own design and a online source.** The SQL database design must comprise between 5 and 7 tables, all normalized to the BKNF level. The online sources can be publicly-available APIs or hosted CSV files.
* **Document your work.** At a minimum, your Jupyter notebooks must document the scope, purpose, and significance of your work. Each analytical step (code cell) should be documented with markdown cells above and below stating your intention (above) and interpretation (below). Your notebooks should tell a story about the data. **One should be able to read the rendered notebook in GitHub and know exactly what you did, why you did it, and why we should care about the results.**

## Instructions  
1. Accept the [GitHub Classroom invitation](https://classroom.github.com/g/H2gwovT2) and form your team.
2. Scope out a suitable project. You can be creative. There is no requirement that their be a practical business application. Have some fun with it.
2. Design your database. Start with an ERD and commit an export to your repository.
3. Build your database in [SQLite](https://www.sqlite.org/about.html). You may want to read this handy [SQLite guide for SQLAlchemy](http://docs.sqlalchemy.org/en/latest/dialects/sqlite.html) first. Write all your SQLite DDL queries in a Jupyter Notebook call `DDL.ipynb`. The use a separate Jupyter Notebook called `DML.ipynb` to populate your tables.
4. Write a `Analysis.ipynb` Notebook with your analysis. You can do just about anything you learned in IS505 but you don't have to do anything fancy. The purpose is to show that you learned how to build a SQL database and integrate it with Python. However, have fun with this if you can.
5. Write and commit a `Readme.md` file inside your repository outlining your project. This file is what GitHub will display by default for your repository, so make a good impression. It's standard markdown, just like we use in Jupyter. Instead of using slides, you will start and end your final presentation with the `Readme.md`, so use it to link to all your files and provide information about our project: motivations, data sources, challenges, lessons learned, etc.
6. **Clean up your notebooks and GitHub repo.** Yes, styling and organization matters. Make sure you don't have any unfinished or extraneous artifacts (draft files, extra Notebook cells, etc.) left over from your explorations. (We're professionals, not undergrads. Right?)

## Timeline/Workplan
* **Nov 28:** Review assignment, form teams, and begin planning out the work.
* **Dec 5:** Time will be given in class to work on the project. Your goal should be to design your database.
* **Dec 9:** You may use the entire day to work on your project with your team. Try to have a draft version of your work done by 4pm.
* **Dec 11:** Commit and push your work to GitHub. Use a commit comment to indicate that you are ready to present.
* **Dec 12:** Present your work. Walk us through your project, including your source/motivations, finished notebook, modules/testing, and lessons learned. There will be no slides for this. Just use your work. See the instructions for the `Readme.md` file above.
